Event API documentation (#87)
PaperMC/docs: docs/paper/dev/event-api/event-listeners.md

---
slug: /dev/event-api/event-listeners
---

# Event Listeners

Events are an efficient way to listen for specific actions that happen in the game. They can be called by the server, or by plugins. 

> These are called by the server when something happens, such as a player joining the server, or a block being broken. 

Reviewer: This is a bit clunky with "These are called by the server" and "They can be called by plugins" breaking the flow/repeating what was said right before

## The listener method

The method body does not need to return any data, for this reason use `void` as the return type. 
Listeners take in a single parameter, which is the event that is being listened for.
    
```java title="ExampleListener.java"
public class ExampleListener implements Listener {

    @EventHandler
    public void onPlayerJoin(PlayerJoinEvent event) {
        // ...
    }
}
```

:::note Events

There is no list of events that can be listened for, however take a look 
[here](https://jd.papermc.io/paper/1.19/org/bukkit/event/Event.html) to see all events that extend `Event`.

:::

## Registering the listener

To register the listener, you need to call `Bukkit.getPluginManager().registerEvents()` 
and pass in your listener class instance and an instance of your plugin.

This will register your listener class and allow it to listen for events. 
This is commonly done in the `onEnable()` method of your plugin so that it is registered when the server starts ticking.

```java title="ExamplePlugin.java"
public class ExamplePlugin extends JavaPlugin {

    @Override
    public void onEnable() {

>         Bukkit.getPluginManager().registerEvents(new ExampleListener(), this);

Reviewer 2: `getServer()`?

Author: Why is this better than using the `Bukkit` version?

Reviewer: It is not strictly "better", but goes into OOP territory, also with the whole Bukkit class just being a relict and glorified getInstance() wrapper that simply duplicates all of the Server interface. using getServer() here simply nudges a little into the direction of good practices

    }
}
```

## Event priority

You can also specify the priority of the event.
    
```java title="ExampleListener.java"
public class ExampleListener implements Listener {

    @EventHandler(priority = EventPriority.HIGH)
    public void onPlayerJoin(PlayerJoinEvent event) {
        // ...
    }
}
```
There are six different priorities that you can use:
- `EventPriority.LOWEST`
- `EventPriority.LOW`
- `EventPriority.NORMAL`
- `EventPriority.HIGH`
- `EventPriority.HIGHEST`
- `EventPriority.MONITOR`

:::note

> The `MONITOR` priority is used to monitor the event, but not change it.

Reviewer 2: I'd elaborate a bit here, say why you would want to use MONITOR to monitor the event. Because it is called last, so you get the result of possible modification/cancellation any other plugin performed.

:::

The order of the priorities is somewhat counter-intuitive. The **higher** the priority, the **later** the event is called. 

> This is because the priorities are called in reverse order as the later listener can override the result of the earlier listener.

Reviewer 2: > This is because the priorities are called in reverse order

This is reiterating the line above, I'd take that part out and just describe why (second part of sentence): because higher priority means overriding what other plugins might have done -> called later.

I'd also move this to above the note about MONITOR.

## Event cancellation

> Events can be cancelled, which means that the event will not happen.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Events can be cancelled, preventing the given action from being completed.
```

> Events can be cancelled, preventing the given action from being completed.

Reviewer 2: Not all events can be

    
```java title="ExampleListener.java"
public class ExampleListener implements Listener {

    @EventHandler
    public void onPlayerJoin(PlayerJoinEvent event) {
        event.setCancelled(true);
    }
}
```

The above example will cancel the event, meaning that the player will not be able to join the server.
Once an event is cancelled, it will not call any other listeners for that event unless they add 

> `ignoreCancelled = true` to the `@EventHandler` annotation to ignore cancelled events.

Reviewer 2: > it will not call any other listeners

It **will** call every other listener, unless they add that. The default behavior is to continue down the list. I'd add a warning higher up about this behavior, to check cancellation/ignore if relevant as it trips up a lot of new people.

Author: I believe I have understood this now, but do check please. Addressed everything else.

Reviewer 2: seems good

> For this reason you can add `ignoreCancelled = true` to the `@EventHandler` annotation to ignore cancelled events.

Reviewer: Should combine these "will not call any other listeners unless they..."
